Add Documentation for .NET SDK Container Build (#6521)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/containers/debug-netcore.md

> ---

Reviewer: Revert this change as the metadata header needs to be inside a `---` block.

## Prerequisites

> 1. Install the [.NET SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download), which includes support for attaching to the .NET debugger. If you install .NET SDK 7 or later, you have the option of debugging without a Dockerfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the [.NET SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download), which includes support for attaching to the .NET debugger. With .NET SDK 7 or later, you have the option of debugging without a Dockerfile.
```

Reviewer 2: I suggest this shorter wording which also removes any mention of installing, which might not be relevant to the user (for example if they're using a machine with different frameworks already installed).

## Walkthrough

- If needed, create a .NET project with `dotnet new`.
- Open the project folder in VS Code.
- Optionally, set a breakpoint.

## .NET SDK vs. Dockerfile Build

> For those seeking a streamlined container debugging experience without the need for a Dockerfile or who are well-acquainted with MSBuild, the .NET SDK option is the ideal choice. On the other hand, if you feel more at ease working with Dockerfiles, opt for Dockerfile.

Author: yeah that makes sense

### .NET SDK Container Build (Debug without `Dockerfile`)

> 1. Press `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)` or choose **Start Debugging** from the **Run** menu. (Make sure you don't have any existing launch profiles in `launch.json`)

Reviewer 3: I'm not really sure. I doubt VSCode themselves have any good way of addressing this...

> 1. Press `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)` or choose **Start Debugging** from the **Run** menu. (Make sure you don't have any existing launch profiles in `launch.json`)

Author: We could add a command to scaffold a .NET SDK Container build launch profile but... that sorta defies the intensions of this feature

> 1. You're going to be prompted with a list of debuggers, choose Select **Docker: Debug in Container**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. You're prompted with a list of debuggers. Choose **Docker: Debug in Container**
```

Reviewer 2: Use present tense. Also is the "Select" part of the UI or was it redundant with "choose" ?

Author: Good catch, "Select" is indeed redundant

> 1. You will be prompted with options to either build with a `Dockerfile` (**Use a Dockerfile**) or build using the .NET SDK (**Use .NET SDK**)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. When prompted with options to either build with a `Dockerfile` (**Use a Dockerfile**) or build using the .NET SDK (**Use .NET SDK**), select **Use .NET SDK**.
```
Combining these two steps, since otherwise this step doesn't have a user action.

Author: I like it

> 1. Select **Use .NET SDK**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. If you have multiple project files in your workspace, choose the project file associated with the project you want to debug

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If you have multiple project files in your workspace, choose the project file associated with the project you want to debug.
```

1. Your .NET app will run in a Docker container, and the web app will open in your browser.

> > Note: **Supported .NET SDK Versions:** This feature is available for .NET SDK version 7.0.300 and above by default. For versions between 7.0.100 and 7.0.300, enable it with `dotnet add package Microsoft.NET.Build.Containers`. You can read more about .NET SDK Container build on [Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/docker/publish-as-container).

Reviewer 2: Follow the official Note syntax

## Walkthrough

- If needed, create a .NET project with `dotnet new`.
- Open the project folder in VS Code.
- You are prompted with whether to build your image using a Dockerfile or the [.NET SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download). If you want a simple container debug experience without a Dockerfile or if you are more familiar with MSBuild, choose **Use .NET SDK**. If you're more comfortable working with Dockerfiles, choose **Use a Dockerfile**.

### .NET SDK Container Build (Debug without `Dockerfile`)

// TODO: add context

> 1. Press `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)` or choose **Start Debugging** from the **Run** menu.

Reviewer 3: Does `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)` render prettier on the docs site?

Reviewer: Yep, this renders as the correct keyboard shortcut for the readers platform, with a hover for the other two supported.

![image](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/assets/12818376/a0ad90ec-5063-4b12-840a-b1523dbdc6bf)

Not so interesting for `F5` but nice for Ctrl+* on Windows/Linux versus Cmd+* on macOS

Author: Nice!

   ```

For additional customization options, see the documentation on [Tasks](/docs/containers/reference.md) and [Debug containerized apps](/docs/containers/debug-common.md).

> ## Saving Project File Preference for [.NET SDK Container Build](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/docker/publish-as-container)

Reviewer 2: I doubt if links are allowed in headings

If you have a workspace folder with multiple .NET project files and you want to exclusively debug one specific project (without being prompted to choose from a list of project files every time you `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)`), you can save your launch profile by following these steps:

> 1. Follow the steps in [.NET SDK Container Build](#net-sdk-container-build-debug-without-dockerfile) and keep the debug session live

Reviewer 2: Periods at the end of full sentences when they appear in lists.

1. Click on the `gear` icon in your debugger view.

   ![dockerSharedFolders](images/debug/debugger-scaffolding.png)

1. Select **Docker: Debug in Container**
1. Choose the project file associated with the project you want to debug

> 1. Your project preference is saved & you no longer need to choose a project file on `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Your project preference is saved, and you no longer need to choose a project file on `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)`
```

Reviewer 2: Each step should be a user action. For other text, you can just indent it to align with the start of the previous paragraph (doublecheck the indentation)

Author: Makes sense

   ```

For additional customization options, see the documentation on [Tasks](/docs/containers/reference.md) and [Debug containerized apps](/docs/containers/debug-common.md).

## Saving Project File Preference for [.NET SDK Container Build](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/docker/publish-as-container)

If you have a workspace folder containing multiple .NET project files and you only intend to debug one for the foreseeable future (i.e. you never want to be prompted a list of project files when you `kb(workbench.action.debug.start)`). You can save your launch profile by doing the following:

1. Follow the steps in [.NET SDK Container Build](#net-sdk-container-build-debug-without-dockerfile) and keep the debug session live
1. Click on the `gear` icon in your debugger view.

   ![dockerSharedFolders](images/debug/debugger-scaffolding.png)

> 1. Select **Docker: Add Docker Files to Workspace...**

Reviewer 3: Wait, can't they scaffold the new debug launch configuration and specify a project file in it, and not have to add a Dockerfile?

Author: ahhh shoot... clutch catch! I intended to put `Docker: Debug in Container` and not `Docker: Add Docker Files to Workspace...`
